Section four.
Unity.
C-sharp Physics Programming.
In this section, we'll cover handling physics events for collisions and triggers, adding physics forces
to move objects.
We'll tackle the most common and useful physics properties and physics functions.
And we'll take a look at physics debugging on collision events and the collision object.
In this video, we'll cover physics Lifecycle recap.
Then we'll jump into what our collision events.
Why are they useful?
And then we'll open the Unity editor and we'll play with collision events, Recommended viewing physics,
life cycle physics, simulate and time dilation introduces the core fundamentals of physics, events,
physics, life cycle Recap.
As we saw in earlier sections, the on collision events are called When the collider intersects another
collider, we use the on collision enter method inside of a behavior, and we notice that we get past
the collision object on collision events.
Let's take a closer look.
Why do we use them?
First of all, on collision events?
Give us more information about physics collisions.
These are collisions we're talking about between rigid bodies with colliders.
When is trigger is set to false?
Some common examples would be when a bullet hits an enemy or when a character collects a coin.
Let's take a look at a scenario for an on collision event.
Let's imagine we have a pink cube falling downward toward a blue cube.
Each of them has a rigid body and a collider.
With collider is trigger set to false.
The pink is falling.
Pink enters the collision, firing an on collision.
Enter pink stays in the collision.
Now, for every frame that they're touching will get a on collision stay called when pink exits.
The collision will get a one time on collision exit.
Then pink continues to fall.
Our focus is really on the collision enter.
This allows us to capture the bullet hits an enemy or the character collects a coin scenario.
The collision object that comes into that method gives us more information about the collision.
We can ask Collision game object What did we hit or collision contacts?
Where exactly in the 3D world did the collision happen?
So let's take a look at what did we hit.
Well, we can check collision game object name and see if it matches the something we're looking for.
That's good for very specific checks.
We can use the tag for a whole category of checking.
We can check.
Is this colliding with any one of the coins which are tagged coin?
An alternative?
Also good for categorical checks is we can check the layer.
Did we hit anything with a layer set to floor tags and layers?
Both can be used here.
Something to be noted.
We can have zero or one tags or layers on each of our objects.
However, we have unlimited tags in a project, but only 31 layers.
Also notice that layers are much faster than tags.
So if you don't have many layers and you want to get the speed increase, go ahead and use layers.
If you have a lot of different combinations to check, maybe tags is better for you.
You can open up and manage from menu unity, Edit Project Settings, Tags and Layers.
Let's jump into a demo now.
We'll take a look at the on collision events, one and two scenes.
We'll play the scene and inspect the code here.
Inside Unity.
Let's open up our on collision events one.
We've got a pink cube.
In the blue cube.
Pink cube is going to fall.
Let's see what happens.
It falls, collides and then continues falling.
We can see in the console window we have one enter several stay and one exit.
Looking at the code pretty straightforward using debug log to send out some simple text.
That's it.
Let's take a look at collision events.
Two seen.
Same scenario.
At this time, we have a floor.
Let's play.
We see the collision.
And in each console line we also see what we're colliding with.
The pink cube is colliding with Cube B.
Notice it's not colliding with the floor.
Let's see how that's done.
Inside each method.
We check if we're colliding with the floor and then we do not say the debug log statement.
So how does is floor work?
Down here, we simply check the layer.
And is it the floor layer now?
Floor layer constant just equals floor.
It's a simple way for me to store that variable.
If we look in unity and we expect the floor, we see that the layer is set to floor.
That's how this code knows.
Not to say debug log when we're colliding with the floor.
That's it.
In the next video, we'll take a look at on trigger events and the collider object.
We'll cover what are trigger events, why are they useful in our game projects?
And we'll even open up unity and play with some trigger events.